SOURCE: https://create.hsbc/foundations-and-identity/Tone_of_Voice/Everythingtoeveryone.html
TITLE: Inclusive language
VERSION/UPDATED: undated on page
FETCHED: 2026-07-02 via Dave's authenticated create.hsbc session (Claude in Chrome)
NOTE: site nav/footer chrome stripped. Two downloadable PDFs referenced, not captured:
HSBC Language Guide (PDF 108 KB), HSBC Conversation Guide (PDF 3 MB).

Inclusive language

Connecting people, ideas and capital with our borderless approach to banking

We connect people, ideas and capital with our borderless approach to banking. And we carry that through into how we write, by being inclusive in our language. No matter who our readers are, or where they're based, we use words in a way that makes them feel seen and respected. And we never forget they're real people with diverse beliefs, feelings and identities – so we always talk to them as such.

== Don't define your audience too narrowly ==

We always write with an audience in mind. This helps focus our message and stay relevant to the people we want to reach. But we don't want to define our target audience so narrowly that we exclude other important facets of who they are. For example, you may define your reader as a business owner in their mid-thirties. But they may choose to define themselves in other ways, too — by race, nationality, sexual orientation, gender identity, whether they're a parent, if they're neurodiverse, if they have a disability, or whether English is their first language. By being aware of your reader's overlapping identities and affiliations, you're less likely to make assumptions that make them feel overlooked or excluded.

== Pay attention to gendered or binary language ==

Consciously using gender-neutral language helps your writing speak to everyone, regardless of how they personally identify.

In a formal salutation: Mr, Mrs, Ms, Miss are all examples of gendered titles that define a person in a binary way, and/or by their marital status. If you're not sure what title to use with someone you're writing to, it's best to leave it out. Use 'Hello [Name]', or another variation that addresses them by name instead.

For a job title or professional role — consider -person or leave out the suffix:
Chairman → Chairperson or chair
Fireman → Firefighter
Air steward / stewardess → Flight attendant
Businessman → Businessperson
Salesman → Salesperson
Policeman → Police officer

When talking about social roles or categories: avoid ascribing a deliberate or default gender. Instead of 'mothers' or 'fathers', use gender-neutral phrases like 'parents', 'caregivers' or 'people who have children'.

When using personal pronouns: until someone tells you otherwise, address them using the gender-neutral pronouns they / them. 'They' works as both a singular and plural pronoun – there's no grammatical reason why we shouldn't or can't use it.

== Don't only write for the majority ==

With everything you write, ask yourself if there's an opportunity to open it up to a group that isn't usually catered for or considered. Consciously interrogate and evaluate your word choices when editing.

Coded language (seems innocuous but rooted in historical prejudice) — table:
- Blacklist / whitelist → Blocklist / allowlist, or safe-list / rejectlist (reinforces black=bad, white=positive)
- Master- / slave- prefixes (especially tech) → Primary or secondary (rooted in the hierarchy of slavery)
- Long time no see → It's been a while (believed to come from mockery of English spoken by Native American or Chinese populations in the USA)
- Ethnic as a qualifying adjective (ethnic languages, ethnic customers) → name who/what you're referring to, eg, the Chinese market, West African languages (implies non-white culture is not standard or 'other')
- Illegal immigrants → Undocumented person (dehumanising, reinforces negative stereotypes)

Umbrella terms / catch-all phrases: BAME, BME, or 'Asian' as catch-all — best avoided. When talking about people who you know belong to a specific group or community, properly acknowledge them by name: Black people, the South East Asian market, of Jewish heritage, the Deaf community. Remember to correctly capitalise proper nouns related to race, nationality, cultures and faiths. Following Associated Press style, we capitalise Black as an ethnic and cultural adjective.

Names and cultural references: in pre-populated form fields, lifestyle examples, chatbot scripts — vary names to reflect a range of cultures, backgrounds and faiths; include lifestyle examples relevant to different social groups; mix up cultural references so they don't only reflect the experiences of the majority.

== Take a people-first approach to differences ==

Always put the person before their diagnosis, disability or difference:
Homeless person → Person who is experiencing homelessness
Disabled person → Person with a disability
Deaf person → Person with deafness

Describe the condition rather than using it to define someone, and never say they 'suffer from' it:
Mark is an epileptic → Mark has epilepsy
Jing is an addict → Jing has an addiction
Sonu is bipolar → Sonu has / has been diagnosed with bipolar disorder

Some people might choose to define themselves by their difference. People with autism often say 'I'm autistic' as it's part of their identity. Similarly, many people in the Deaf community define themselves as such. If you're unsure, use person-first language to stay respectful.

Referring to someone as 'old' or as 'elderly' infers that they are weak or inferior. Whereas a phrase like 'a reader who is over 65' acknowledges their age without presenting the person negatively. Stay conscious of how language can feed everyday discrimination, such as ageism or homophobia.

[Tailored inclusive-tone sessions available via Create Direct.]
