SOURCE: https://create.hsbc/foundations-and-identity/video.html
TITLE: Video (2025 foundations — 4 of 7)
VERSION/UPDATED: undated; no supercharge banner
FETCHED: 2026-07-02 via Dave's authenticated create.hsbc session (Claude in Chrome, same-origin fetch-all method)
NOTE: logged-out banner boilerplate stripped. HUB PAGE: 6 sub-standards linked, NOT descended (Creative considerations · Media types · Video patterns · Subject matter · Technical considerations · Interactive elements) — logged in _INGESTION-QUEUE.md.

Video
Video is a fundamental communications medium of moving visual images. These standards provide best practice principles to follow when creating video content.

Transcript
Introduction
Video is a versatile and powerful medium that can effectively convey information, tell stories, and educate audiences across a variety of platforms. Compared with still images, video has several advantages:
It can simplify complex ideas and make them more accessible and easier to understand.
The brain processes images faster than text, making video a more efficient medium.
It is more engaging and captivating than static images or text.
It allows for a more emotional connection with audiences and can be more personable and relatable.
It works best on social media platforms, where reels are automatically optimised for better performance.

Usage
There are many ways we use video to build our brand. For example through ads, trailers, training videos, news, interviews, dynamic content, behind the scenes clips and live events.
Our goal for videos is to establish credibility and trust in our brand and present content in a clear and easy-to-understand manner. The following guidelines provide instructions and inspiration for creating a compelling video.

Creative considerations
How to apply our brand style foundations in a video.
Media types
Different types of media you can use in a video, such as still images and illustrations.
Video patterns
Guidance for patterns to use when creating or editing a video, such as end frame and title cards.
Subject matter
Guidance for subject matter when creating video content.
Technical considerations
Technical details of a video when creating a video.
Interactive elements
Guidance on how to allow viewers to interact with content that lives within the video.

Video Toolkit
The HSBC Video Toolkit provides pre-built After Effects compositions that are designed to help teams easily create new content that perfectly aligns to our motion standard.
Download the HSBC Video Toolkit
HSBC Video Toolkit 1.0
(ZIP 155 MB)

Explore related standards
Video player
Learn more about video player types, usage and how to control digital videos within a layout.
View our Video Player standards
Motion
Learn more about opening, advancing and emulating motion, how to use the motion equation and how to combine motion types.
View our Motion standard

How to source images and videos
If you've already looked through our Asset Library and can't find the right image or video footage, you can contact our global stock image and video footage providers.
Our stock image and footage partners
We have established partnerships with EyeEm, Getty Images, and Shutterstock/Offset, which provide access to a vast collection of royalty-free photography and stock video footage, as well as search and lightbox creation services.
We've worked closely with each of these stock partners to define global pricing models. They are all familiar with our photography and video guidelines, so all the images and video footage they find will be on brand.
You can write a brief with the details about the assets you are looking for. They will create a collection of curated images or videos for you to choose from.
Please give as much detail as possible. Try to include subject matter, business line or customer segment, region or geographic location, usage details and budget; this will help the stock partners to get the best search.
Regardless if you have found the stock asset yourself or briefed them, please get in touch with the chosen stock partner for the asset's cost. They will need to know where the asset is being used, the regions it will be used in and for how long you need the licence.
EyeEm – hsbc@eyeem.com
Getty Images – keyuk.service@gettyimages.com
Shutterstock / Offset – client.hsbc@shutterstock.com
Free stock libraries
We don't use free stock libraries or videos under Creative Commons, as these can pose different forms of risk to HSBC and its reputation. Even though the images and video footage are marketed and sold as "free", restrictive conditions often wouldn't allow us to use them. When these conditions aren't met, we're breaching the licensing agreement.
The important thing to remember is that HSBC is a global corporation, passionate about giving back to the creative communities that serve us. By purchasing footage through the correct channels, we ensure we're sourcing stock that reinforces our brand messaging, as well as ensuring that those photographers and videographers whose work we use are being paid and treated fairly.

Uploading your stock assets
Once you’ve downloaded your assets from our stock partners, please make sure you upload them to the Assets section of create.hsbc. By uploading the asset, you are helping to create a library of pre-purchased, on-brand videography that can be used by the rest of the business globally. It ensures we’re getting the most out of our investment and that we have a rich diverse library of videos to pick from.
If you want to restrict the usage of the image or video for a single product or service, think about where, when, and how long it’s going to be used for. If a video or image has been picked to act as a hero and you don’t want others in the bank to use it, make sure you enter it in the notes section of the metadata. You'll need to specify an end date for the asset exclusivity, after which time the asset will be usable by the rest of the HSBC network.
How to upload your assets
A series of guides have been produced to give guidance on how to use the asset section in create.hsbc. Watch the 'Uploading assets' video to understand the new 4-step process.
Watch the video

Couldn't find what you're looking for? Ask us on Create Direct
More like this
Video player
Motion
Sound identity
