SOURCE: https://create.hsbc/platforms-and-channels/web/web-foundations/dark-mode.html
TITLE: Dark Mode (browser)
VERSION/UPDATED: 18 April 2021 (pre-refresh page)
FETCHED: 2026-07-02 via Dave's authenticated create.hsbc session (Claude in Chrome)

Dark Mode (browser)

Dark mode is an alternative view to traditional, lighter designs, where a darker theme is used to reduce the amount of light emitted from a digital display.

Dark mode considerations
- Users may choose to use dark mode for various reasons, including personal comfort, to improve eyestrain or for greater accessibility.
- Reducing the amount of light emitted is key to successfully implementing dark mode.
- It's not a straight inversion of a light mode design. Swapping an already dark background to a white background is counterintuitive and could create a jarring user experience in a low light environment.
- Colour usage needs to be considered and reduced where possible, including using desaturated colours.
- Accessibility standards must still be met, especially around colour contrast. Reducing the amount of light emitted shouldn't come at the cost of accessibility.
- It's important that the HSBC brand is still recognisable, even in dark mode. Exact colour values may change between light and dark mode, but following the HSBC guidelines will help to maintain cohesive design across modes.

Behaviour

Users are usually able set their preference for dark mode at a system level. Detecting and following the user's preferences will provide a seamless user experience – and, where possible, more granular control can be given to allow users to set their dark mode preferences within platform settings, to override their system settings.

Colour
Dark mode palette

For dark mode, only colours from the dark backgrounds palette should be used. You can also use the specific programme design toolkit where applicable.

Accessibility callout: maintain a sufficient level of colour contrast when adjusting and exchanging colours for dark mode, to ensure an accessible experience. Maintain a 3:1 contrast ratio: [callout truncated on page]

Backgrounds

Background layers make up the majority of the pixels in a design, so these need to use dark colours to minimise the amount of light emitting from the screen. Backgrounds at higher levels of elevation should be a lighter colour than the base, but still dark overall – see the elevation section on this page for more information.

Do swap light backgrounds to dark
Don't introduce new layers or unnecessary elements
Do keep already dark backgrounds to maintain a majority dark design
Don't invert already dark backgrounds to light

Limit colour usage

Limit the usage of HSBC red and other colours as much as possible. In order to meet user expectations of dark mode, some instances of colour in light mode should be replaced with white or grey.

Using red strategically

Red is still useful to pull attention where necessary, such as the primary call-to-action or to enforce the brand, ie, with the red hexagon. Every use of red should be evaluated and replaced where appropriate.

Adjusted colour values

Some colours don't work well in both light and dark modes, so an adjusted colour value should be used. The contrast of a bright or light colour can be jarring to a user in dark mode, and rich or vibrant colours can cause a visual vibration against dark backgrounds. This can be counteracted by ensuring a darker or desaturated version of the colour is used. Please refer to the appropriate toolkit for the dark mode colour palette.

Do use the appropriate adjusted colour palette.
Don't use the same bright or rich colours across both light and dark modes.

Elevation

Elevation is a visual indication of depth or distance. In light mode, different levels of elevation can be shown with overlays and shadows that darken the lower levels. However, in dark mode the effectiveness of these methods can be limited due to the background already being dark. The methods below show how to use elevation in dark mode specifically, but the full elevation guidelines should still be followed.

Lighter background surfaces

In light mode, depth perception is created by darkening deeper levels. In dark mode, we can use the reverse effect and make the higher levels lighter. The lighter the background surface of the level, the higher it will appear to be.

Overlays

Overlays can still be effective at showing elevation in dark mode as they darken a larger, more noticeable area as well as darkening the content.

Shadows

Shadows can be used to denote elevation in dark mode but due to the limited ability to darken the lower levels under the shadow, they may need to be combined with the use of a lighter background surface.

Typography and icons

When there is strong contrast between light coloured content and dark backgrounds, such as in dark mode, there can be a bleeding effect where the light spills over into the dark background. This is an issue for text and iconography as it can cause stroke weights to appear heavier than in light mode.

To ensure consistency in the appearance of type and iconography, this effect needs to be considered. It can be counteracted by reducing the contrast of the type and icons with the background, either by setting them in light grey, lowering the white opacity, or by using a lighter colour for the background.

Reducing contrast will help lessen the light bleed but sufficient contrast still needs to be maintained to pass accessibility standards.

Imagery
Logo

When using the Hexagon on dark backgrounds, ensure that an SVG is used where possible to avoid choppy edges. Replace the Primary Masterbrand and wordmark with the alternative Masterbrand logo and white wordmark.

Photography — Image selection

When choosing photography for dark mode, it must complement the dark setting. Overly bright imagery could look out of place or be particularly jarring for anyone who's using dark mode to reduce interface brightness.

Using overlays to reduce brightness

Where asset switching isn't viable, a low opacity, dark overlay can be placed on images in dark mode to reduce their overall brightness.

Do use a low opacity overlay on the image to reduce brightness.
Don't use overly bright imagery in dark mode.

Image selection (asset switching)

Some dark mode tools, such as the asset catalogs used by Apple, allow assets to be swapped out contextually based on dark mode settings. These can be used to ensure a dark mode-appropriate image is applied when necessary.

Illustration — Integration into the page

Where asset switching isn't viable, a low opacity, dark overlay can be placed on images in dark mode to reduce their overall brightness.

The page background can sometimes appear to be part of an illustration, especially when there's no defined edge to the visual. As a result, the colour of the page background can have an impact on how the illustration is interpreted by the user, eg, a daytime scene in light mode could appear to be a night-time scene when a dark page background is applied. Make sure that the context of the illustration is considered when choosing the content.

Contain the illustration

The edge of an illustration that is hidden in light mode may become visible when a darker background is applied. You need to consider how the illustration is contained within the page in both modes. Opacity can be used to remove or tone down white backgrounds that reveal the boundaries of illustrations. The edges of an illustration could also be integrated into the design eg, adding a border, extending the illustration to span the full screen width, or fitting it to columns so it aligns with other content.

Do consider the edges of an illustration and use opacity to optimise for light and dark mode.
Don't allow dark mode to reveal unconsidered edges of an illustration.
Do include a background when needed but consider how it's contained as well as how bright it is.
Don't allow an illustration to be lost in the background when changing to dark mode.

Swap illustration assets

Some dark mode tools, such as the asset catalogs used by Apple, allow assets to be swapped out contextually based on dark mode settings. Where possible, a light mode- and dark mode-specific version of an illustration could be created and swapped out contextually.

Creating dynamic assets

In some circumstances, a single asset can be created to adapt to various surroundings. One method is to use opacity, either by having transparent or semi-transparent areas, so that colours in an illustration adapt to the background behind them. Another method is to take advantage of SVGs and swap colour values dynamically, allowing for a complete palette change between light and dark mode.

Avoid choppy edges

When using the transparency capability of the PNG and GIF image formats, edges that look sharp and smooth on light backgrounds can appear choppy and pixelated when the background is darkened. Take care when using these formats to make sure they look good in both modes, and use vector formats such as SVG where possible.

Spacing

Dark backgrounds in a design can cause a layout to feel visually more closed in when compared to a light background with the same amount of negative space. This should be considered when creating designs for dark mode and, where possible, more negative space should be introduced to counteract this.
