SOURCE: https://create.hsbc/platforms-and-channels/web/web-foundations/Elevation.html
TITLE: Elevation (web)
VERSION/UPDATED: undated on page
FETCHED: 2026-07-02 via Dave's authenticated create.hsbc session (Claude in Chrome)
NOTE: site nav/footer chrome stripped; video content not captured (captions only)

Elevation

Elevation is a visual indication of depth or distance. It's applied when elements or patterns sit on top of one another. To show different levels we use overlays and shadows.

[Video] This video shows the different levels of elevation. If an element or pattern is part of level 0, it will never have an elevation style applied, thereby allowing us to effectively distinguish elements and patterns that are above.

Elevation is defined in levels:

0 - base content (or core content, for example, body copy, imagery, card, buttons, etc)
1 - sticky content (such as top navigation, drawer, tooltip)
2 - modality (such as partial modals, dialogs)
3 - notifications (for example, snackbars)

If an element or pattern is part of base content (ie. level 0), it will never have an elevation style applied. This is to enable us to effectively distinguish elements and patterns that sit above base content.

Elevation can be displayed as a state change when base content is scrolled underneath other elements/patterns. Elevation enables clear contrast between the lements and patterns that are stationery and those that are moving. [sic — source typos preserved]

Types

Shadow represents a specified depth of elevation. Elements and patterns on higher levels have a greater depth of shadow.

Overlay represents a large but unspecified depth of elevation and they are used to focus the user.

Usage

Elevation is used to orientate and focus the user. It's used consistently across each element and pattern (ie all snackbars have the same elevation, all partial modals have the same elevation etc). We go into more detail about which patterns sit on which level in the Behaviour below.

Do use shadows or overlays to focus user attention on higher levels of content
Don't display both types of elevation at the same time on a specific element or pattern
Do show elevation when the element / pattern sits above level 0 (for example, browser tooltips)
Don't use shadows (inner or outer) for purely aesthetic decoration
Do use shadows to display elevation when content on level 0 moves beneath elements/patterns on higher levels
Don't use elevation on patterns that move within the page content on level 0 (such as an accordion that pushing content down) [sic]
Do visually overlap content on the same level where appropriate for styling (for example in the case of a content container)
Don't use shadow to differentiate between elements and patterns on the same level

Behaviour

Elevation can be triggered:
- on appearance: when an element or pattern on a higher level appears on screen
- on scroll: when level 0 is scrolled underneath elements/patterns

* Elements/patterns contained within these do not display further elevation.
** Conditional – if a page has just loaded and has no scrollable content, no shadow will be displayed. If a page is scrollable a page would appear. [sic]

Top navigation

Default elevation state is null. On scroll, shadow state is displayed when content is moved underneath the top navigation.

Bottom navigation and sticky button container

On page load, the appearance of shadow is conditional on whether there is scrollable content. If the content is not scrollable a shadow is not displayed. If a page is scrollable, a shadow is visible by default.
