SOURCE: https://create.hsbc/platforms-and-channels/web/web-foundations/Responsive_grid.html
TITLE: Responsive grid (web)
VERSION/UPDATED: undated on page
FETCHED: 2026-07-02 via Dave's authenticated create.hsbc session (Claude in Chrome)
NOTE: breakpoint/margin/gutter tables are rendered as images on the page — values shown in text captured; per-breakpoint margin/gutter table NOT retrievable as text (source gap)

Responsive grid

Our responsive grid system provides structure and consistency across the pages we design for HSBC websites and creates a harmonious experience for those viewing them.

Sections: Usage · Breakpoints · Grid layout · Content reflow · Off-grid content

Usage

You should use our responsive grid for all website pages you design for HSBC, both internal and external.

Breakpoints

The base unit for the grid is 4px. This is used for both horizontal and vertical measurement. We normally express this unit in multiples of 8, however multiples of 4 can be used as a fallback option if needed.

*Note: For sites using a maximum content width of 1280px (including margins of 20px), we recommend keeping the gutters at 20px to align with the standard HSBC header and footer. However, if your content width goes significantly wider, then consider using 24px or 32px for gutters.

Grid layout

Using a 12-column grid enables us to group columns together to create consistent layouts that respond across screen sizes. Starting from mobile, the first three groupings below are most appropriate. As widths increase, it becomes easier to incorporate more multi-column groupings.

The maximum width of your grid can be set using a final breakpoint. Beyond that point, the columns, gutters and margins stop growing to fill the viewport. Your final breakpoint can be chosen depending on the type of content displayed. For example, most public-facing product or editorial experiences will use approximately 1280px as a final breakpoint. Beyond this point, the margins are the only facet to continue to grow, with the content and columns remaining fixed and centred.

If a grid continues to expand beyond this breakpoint, you can consider using an adaptive approach to the design so that content can be displayed in a customised layout, maximising the potential of an extra-wide viewport for the user. To discuss this approach contact the Digital Standards team.

Content reflow

Content reflow allows us to adapt the layout to fit the constraints of the user's viewport. When arranging the optimal layout, it is important to consider the context of the content and user tasks.

While it is common industry practice to design mobile first, it is still important to consider user needs on medium to large viewports and how best to arrange content.

Images are an important part of the HSBC brand, helping capture users' attention and visualise key information. When arranging images within a layout, you should consider their significance and whether they are supporting or pivotal to the content narrative, and how that significance may change across the range of viewport sizes.

In the visual above, the image hierarchy on a PWS page has remained intact as the layout changes to a small viewport.

When considering how different viewport sizes impact data tables, you should consider the importance of the columns of data, and if it is necessary for users to visually compare data side-by-side when adapting table layouts.

In the example above, the responsive table works by collapsing the columns into a stacked layout that looks like blocks of label / data pairs for each row.

For more on responsive table behaviours, view the tables guidelines.

Off-grid content

Modals, tooltips or other content that overlays the page content (eg expanded vertical navigation), are independent of the grid and do not need to follow the same guidelines as elements on the page.

If the space created in the margins as the viewport expands is large enough, additional content can be displayed there that would otherwise be hidden until selected (eg vertical navigation, filters or other tools).
