SOURCE: https://create.hsbc/platforms-and-channels/web/web-foundations/spacing.html
TITLE: Spacing (web)
VERSION/UPDATED: undated on page
FETCHED: 2026-07-02 via Dave's authenticated create.hsbc session (Claude in Chrome)
NOTE: RScale VALUE tables are not published on this page (images/toolkit-internal) — source gap logged as webf-034

Spacing

Our spacing system creates synergy between typography, graphic elements and progressive viewport sizes.

Horizontal and vertical spacing on our sites are based on multiples of four, mapping directly to the grid margins and gutters that also work to multiples of four. All padding and margins relating to elements on a page follow this system to create harmony and balance between everything on screen.

In this example the margins and gutters are 16px, so the padding at the sides for components like cards are also set at 16px.

Types

Spacing can be either responsive or fixed depending on the elements it applies to:

Responsive spacing is used for layout and larger elements where the relationship contributes to the overall structure of the page (e.g. padding between tiles or between image and text)

Fixed spacing is used for smaller elements where consistency across all viewports is important (e.g. button padding or the space between a radio button and its label)

Fixed and responsive spacing can be used together on the same page.

Responsive spacing

As the viewport reaches key breakpoints, the spacing is increased. This produces three scales, referred to as RScales:

RScale:1 Used for all viewport sizes between 320 to 959.
RScale:2 Used for all viewport sizes between 960 to 1599.
RScale:3 Used for all viewport sizes 1600 and above (marketing only).

Responsive units or 'R' units are typically used for laying out pages and components. They can also be used within patterns that need to increase in size across breakpoints eg cards, tables and expanding containers.

Fixed spacing

Fixed spacing stays the same value across all breakpoints.
