TYPOGRAPHY (2025 STANDARD) + SUBPAGES — RAW CAPTURE
FETCHED 2026-07-02 via Dave's authenticated create.hsbc session (Claude in Chrome, same-origin fetch).
Pages: typography.html (4579 chars) · creative-headline.html (5315) · placement.html (6363) · latin-languages.html (1860) · app_type_scale.html (1716). All status 200.
NOTE: Do/Don't figures and hexagon-placement diagrams are images — captions captured, visuals not. app_type_scale.html is a word-for-word duplicate of platforms-and-channels/app/app-foundations/type_scale.html (see _sources/app-foundations/type-scale.txt) — not re-transcribed here.

@@PAGE /foundations-and-identity/typography.html

Typography

The use of typography is vital in helping us communicate consistently and effectively across all media and channels.

We're supercharging our brand
We're currently going through a brand refresh and updating our brand foundations. Our new standards will be suitable for any upcoming projects.
The below standards, from 2025, can still be used until further notice.
[Link: Visit the refreshed typography standards for 2026]

Key takeaways
- Only use brand-approved fonts, weights and colours
- Ensure all text is legible and passes the 4.5:1 colour contrast
- Never use red typography for headlines or body copy. Red can only be used for text links (CTAs)
- Only use 'Big and Light' and 'Small and Bold' creative headline treatments
- We don't use uppercase or italics lettering. Use sentence case
- Text should be left-aligned wherever possible, as it provides the best readability

Do use only Thin, Light, Regular, Medium and Bold font weights
Don't use Condensed type

Portfolio of licensed fonts

Univers Next for HSBC can be used for multiple languages – you can find out which ones in the language support section. If you can't find the language you need, the fonts below have been recommended for use.
- Simplified Chinese: M Ying Hei PRC for HSBC
- Traditional Chinese: M Ying Hei HK for HSBC
- Japanese: Tazuane Gothic
- Arabic: Univers Arabic for HSBC

Typography and the Brand Effect Model

Typography, through copywriting, is the primary communication device for HSBC and is therefore used across the entire Brand Effect Model. Below you can see how different treatments are used through the model.
Prime, Engage and Connect: Creative headline typography · Creative headline typography placement
Guide, Convert and Deliver: App responsive type scale · Web responsive type scale

Creative considerations

Using the correct font weights, type sizes and colours ensures our messaging is easy to read and accessible across all media and channels, while reflecting our brand personality.

Readability
For optimum visual impact, our messaging and typographic style should be simple and easy to read.
Do keep the average body copy line length between 60-80 Latin characters
Don't leave a single word, or 'orphan' sitting by itself on a separate line at the end of a heading or paragraph
Do keep an average headline length of 20-50 Latin characters
Don't leave a single word or short group of words at the beginning of a new column or page – we refer to these as 'widows'

Typecase
Our typographic style only ever uses sentence case. We never use all-caps as it's hard to read.
Don't use only capital letters or title case in any communication, as it becomes harder to read
Don't use italics – these aren't licensed and make the text harder to read, especially for people with dyslexia
Do use bold to emphasise key words within body copy
Don't bold large sections of content

Highlight and adding emphasis
To highlight or to add emphasis to certain keywords or figures within headlines or body text always use the bold weight of Univers.
Considerations:
Do use Univers Next Bold to pull out keywords and figures
Don't use underline, italic or any other text options to pull out keywords. Underlining text should only be used for web links.
Do use Univers Next Bold to highlight keywords and figures within body copy
Don't use shapes or graphic devices to pull out keywords
Don't use drop shadows on text
Don't add outlines or other graphic styling to typography

Colour
Typography should be clear and accessible to read. When using colour for type, we use dark type on light backgrounds and light type on dark backgrounds.
Don't use red for typography, except within specific digital toolkit use-cases
Don't use highlighted type blocks
Don't use long form copy on red or coloured backgrounds
Do think about size and scale when using headline type on coloured backgrounds

Font download
Univers Next for HSBC — Download the HSBC brand font for both print and digital usage. There are five font weights and language variants available.

@@PAGE /foundations-and-identity/typography/creative-headline.html

Creative headline typography

Creative headline typography has a specific stylistic approach that sets it apart from general typography principles.

Usage
Creative headline typography primarily uses Univers Next for HSBC in Thin, Light and Bold weights. The three weights help reduce clutter within our communications, as well as allowing greater emphasis to be placed on the Hexagon.

Usage within the Brand Effect Model
For creative headline typography, only use to: Prime the 'out-of-market' · Engage the 'in-market' · Connect to opportunities.
For digital, we use the existing type scale. [Links: App type standard · Web responsive type scale standard]

Don't use any other weights other than Thin, Light and Bold for creative headline typography – this example uses Regular
Don't split creative headline typography along the same axis

Creative application
We have two approaches for using type at a headline level:

Big and light — We use HSBC Univers Light for big and meaningful, creative headlines. If used alongside the Creative Hexagon, type is permitted to interact with it by overlapping it slightly. It should be predominantly left-aligned.

Small and bold — We use HSBC Univers Bold for confident, impactful creative headlines, but at a smaller type size than the big and light version. It should always be left-aligned.

Thin — We use HSBC Univers Thin for large formats; for example, outdoor billboards. When used alongside the creative Hexagons, it imparts a sophisticated and elegant style.

Don't use big and light together with small and bold
Don't use weights other than Light, Bold and Thin
Do use big and Thin for large formats only
Do ensure headlines have a breathing space by keeping body copy apart from creative headline typography

Use with photography
For our communications to always remain accessible and legible, we need to take particular care when using creative headline typography on top of photography.
Don't place black creative headline typography on dark background imagery, as this will make it difficult to read
Don't place white creative headline typography on light background imagery, as this will make it difficult to read
Do colour treat photography to help create greater contrast between the creative headline typography and the background colour – keep it subtle and natural
Don't use treatments on creative headline typography – eg drop shadows, stroke outlines, vignette effects – but do try adjusting the asset to ensure colour contrast

Accessibility
Creative headline typography on photography should pass colour contrast of 3:1 for large text at AA, 4.5.1 [sic] for smaller text at AA and 7:1 for AAA standard.
Don't overlay text on gradient backgrounds, ensure that the text is clear at different view points on digital products and doesn't wrap, becoming unreadable.

Typographic style
Our messaging should be set in a simple, confident and modern typographic style, to reflect our brand values.

Hierarchy
In order to communicate clearly and effectively, it's important we create a distinction between the messaging we write. We should lead with a short, instantly understandable headline, and pair this with simple and concise body copy. If sub-headings are required, these should be treated in a way that doesn't conflict with the lead headlines, however they should stand out from the body copy. A call to action should sit away from the main body copy and be given more weight to add impact, but again this should not conflict with the headline.
Example 1 – Big and light: Creative headline / Sub-heading / Body copy
Example 1 [sic] – Small and bold: Creative headline / Body copy / Call to action

Kerning and leading
Our Latin creative headline typography is set to -30 optical tracking. The leading is always set three point sizes larger than the type size. This is the recommended ratio for creative headline typography, however for languages with accents and special characters or for formats with larger typography sizes we recommend opening up the leading slightly to what feels comfortable within the layout.
Example: Latin — 53pt type size / 56pt leading (ascender height, baseline, descender height)
Example: Typography with accents — When using a character set with accents that sit above the cap height, please increase the leading from +3 to +34 the type size [sic — likely "+3 to +4"; non-Latin example below shows 53/62], or what visually feels right depending on format size. 53pt type size / 56pt leading [as shown]
Example: Non-Latin — When using non-Latin fonts, the leading will differ based on character sets. Please increase the leading from +3 to +34 the type size [sic], or what visually feels right depending on format size. 53pt type size / 62pt leading
Don't alter the kerning or tracking of creative headline typography or body copy – keep things consistent
Don't alter the leading of creative headline typography or body copy

@@PAGE /foundations-and-identity/typography/placement.html

Creative headline placement

Creative headline typography is designed to interact with the Hexagons. When overlapping typography, we need to ensure that the Hexagon is always visible and recognisable.

Big and light vs small and bold
To determine the size of creative headline typography on communications, we can use the Hexagon to help us compare between big and small. This is a recommended guide, but you should take into consideration the length of your message and what visually feels right.

Positioning with the Iconic Hexagon
- Left-aligned, big and light, positioned left above the Iconic Hexagon, with the option to overlap; optional text bottom right of Iconic Hexagon. Layout tip: find anchor points — e.g. align the baseline of the typography to the top or bottom of the Iconic Hexagon.
- Accessibility: whenever we overlap typography with an image/asset, ensure there's sufficient and consistent colour contrast between the two.
- Right-aligned, small and bold, positioned left above the Iconic Hexagon, with the option to overlap; body copy right-aligned to the page. Layout tip: align body copy to base of the Iconic Hexagon.
- Left-aligned, big and light, no overlap; body copy left-aligned. Layout tip: sit body copy below the Iconic Hexagon for balance.
- Left-aligned, small and bold, no overlap; body copy left-aligned. Layout tip: sit body copy underneath headline typography when expanding on the headline messaging.
Don't centre-align creative headline typography overlapping the Iconic Hexagon
Don't centre-align creative headline typography above or below the Iconic Hexagon

Positioning with the Open Hexagon
- Left-aligned, big and light, positioned left above the Open Hexagon, with the option to overlap; optional text bottom right. Layout tip: anchor points (baseline to top/bottom of Open Hexagon).
- Right-aligned, big and light, positioned on either side of the Open Hexagon with overlap. Layout tip: works best kept simple — bold and confident, limit the number of words.
- Left-aligned, small and bold, no overlap; body copy left-aligned.
- Left-aligned, big and light, no overlap; body copy left-aligned, positioned under the Open Hexagon. Layout tip: dynamic compositions via body-copy positioning; align to an anchor point, e.g. centre of the Hexagon.
Do place creative headline typography inside the Open Hexagon, but keep it simple and concise
Don't place long-form copy inside the Open Hexagon

Positioning with the Cropped Hexagon
When using the Cropped Hexagon, aim to create a relationship between the creative headline typography and the size of the Hexagon.
Ratios (Hexagon:Typography): 90:10 · 50:50 · 80:20 · 60:30
- Left-aligned, big and light, alongside the Cropped Hexagon, no overlap
- Right-aligned, big and light, inside Cropped Hexagon when filled with red or grey
- Left-aligned, small and bold, alongside, no overlap
- Left-aligned, big and light, below the Cropped Hexagon, no overlap. Layout tip: let the headline start lower down the page; align to the corner of the Hexagon.
Do use small and bold style when using red colour block – big and light text doesn't have sufficient contrast against the red
Don't place creative headline typography inside the Cropped Hexagon, when used on top of photography
Don't overlap creative headline typography with the Cropped Hexagon
Don't place creative headline typography inside the Cropped Red Hexagon, when used on top of cutout photography, as it clutters and confuses the messaging

Coverage
For the Cropped Hexagon, the type should never overlap the Hexagon as this will clutter the page and stop the shape being so instantly identifiable. As we have two typography approaches to choose from, big and light or small and bold, each of these need to be treated slightly differently in relation to how much they overlap the Hexagon. [Diagrams: overlap caps per style — "Small and bold... should not overlap the Hexagon beyond this point" / "Big and light... beyond this point"]
Don't use lengthy small and bold creative headline typography that create clutter and distract from the image and Hexagon
Don't use big and light creative headline typography that overlap too much of the Hexagon

Placement
From leaflets and on screen, to within the pages of a document, creative headline typography has a distinct style which allows for flexibility within a piece of communication. Creative headline typography helps HSBC communicate consistently and effectively across all media and channels, and is designed to work with the Hexagons, photography, and illustration. For maximum impact, we use creative headline typography at Prime, Engage and Connect levels.

@@PAGE /foundations-and-identity/typography/latin-languages.html

Univers Next for HSBC — Language support

Univers Next for HSBC fully supports the below languages, with the appropriate regional keyboard and operating system:

Afaan Oromo · Afar · Afrikaans · Albanian · Alsatian · Aromanian · Asturian · Balkar · Basque · Belarusian (Cyr) · Belarusian (Latin) · Bemba · Bikol · Bosnian · Breton · Bulgarian · Cape Verdean Creole · Catalan · Cebuano · Chavacano · Chichewa · Cornish · Corsican · Croatian (Latin) · Czech · Danish · Dawan (Uab Meto) · Dholuo · Dutch · English · Erzya · Esperanto · Estonian · Faroese · Fijian · Filipino (Tagalog) · Finnish · French · Frisian · Friulian · Gaelic (Scottish) · Galician · Ganda · Garo · German · Greek · Greek monotonic · Greenlandic · Guadeloupean Creole · Guarani · Haitian Creole · Hiligaynon · Hungarian · Icelandic · Ilokano · Indonesian · Irish · Italian · Jamaican · Kadazan-Dusun · Kapampangan · Kaqchikel · Karachay · Karakalpak (Latin) · Karamojong · Karelian · Kazakh (Latin) · Kinyarwanda · Kirundi · Kumyk · Kurdish (Latin) · Ladin · Latin · Latvian · Ligurian · Lithuanian · LowerCase [sic — data artifact] · Luba · Luganda · Luxembourgish · Macedonian · Makhuwa · Malagasy · Malay · Maltese · Maori · Mapuche · Mauritian Creole · Moksha · Nahuatl · Ndebele · Norwegian (Bokmal+Nynorsk) · Occitan · Otomi · Ovambo · Pangasinan · Papiamento · Piedmontese · Polish · Portuguese · Q'eqchi' · Quechua · Rhaeto-Romance · Romani · Romanian · Russian · Ruthenian (Rusyn) · Sámi Lule · Sámi Northern · Sámi Southern · Samoan · Sango · Sardinian · Serbian · Serbian (Latin) · Shona · Sicilian · Silesian · Slovak · Slovenian · Somali · Sorbian · Sotho · Spanish · Sranan · Swahili · Swazi · Swedish · Tahitian · Tatar (Latin) · Tausug · Tok Pisin · Tsonga · Tswana · Tumbuka · Turkish · Turkmen (Latin) · Tzotzil · Ukrainian · UpperCase [sic — data artifact] · Uyghur (Latin) · Venetian · Vietnamese · Walloon · Waray-Waray · Welsh · Wolof · Xhosa · Yucatec Maya · Zazaki · Zulu

@@PAGE /foundations-and-identity/typography/app_type_scale.html

App type scale — DUPLICATE of platforms-and-channels/app/app-foundations/type_scale.html (verified: same S1–S7 values, same iOS Dynamic Type rule, same titles-S4+ guidance). See _sources/app-foundations/type-scale.txt.
