NEURODIVERSITY GUIDELINES — RAW CAPTURE (see CAPTURE-NOTES.md for method + coverage)
FETCHED 2026-07-02 via Dave's authenticated create.hsbc session.

@@PAGE /foundations-and-identity/accessibility.html (hub)

Accessibility

Explore our neurodiversity guidelines and communication guidance.

One billion people, or 15-20% of the world's population, experience some form of disability.

HSBC has a bold ambition; to become the most digitally accessible financial services provider in the world. Our aim is to make our public websites, mobile applications and internal systems accessible and usable by all customers and staff.

For the bank to deliver accessible digital products consistently, our digital teams need accessibility knowledge, training, tools, and motivation.

Neurodiversity guidelines — How to design, code and create digital content that supports the needs of neurodiverse customers or staff.
Communication guidance — To ensure our communications are as accessible and inclusive as possible, we have identified the seven most common scenarios we may encounter in the work place.

@@PAGE /foundations-and-identity/accessibility/Neurodiversity-Guidelines.html (overview)

Neurodiversity guidelines

The purpose of these guidelines is to provide members of HSBC digital teams with guidance for how they should design, code and create digital content to support the needs of people who are neurodiverse, whether those people are HSBC customers or staff.

What is neurodiversity?

The recognised concept of neurodiversity has been around since 1998; the phrase originated with Judy Singer who used it to describe conditions like attention deficit disorders (ADD), autism, dyslexia and dyspraxia etc.; it encompasses the concept that brains and neurocognitive abilities such as learning, attention, sociability and mood differ from person to person.

In essence, individuals with neurological disorders like autism shouldn't be viewed as abnormal, instead these neurological differences should simply be viewed as natural variations of the human brain.

Why neurodiversity is important

At least one in ten working age adults are neurodivergent in some way; and for some, these conditions are considered fundamental a person [sic] and as such many people who fall into these categories do not consider themselves to have a disability.

Unlike accessibility, no single set of recognised neurodiversity guidelines exist; and due to the nature of neurodiversity, no single solution exists for all conditions; in-fact what might work for one group of users may be detrimental to another.

HSBC want to ensure all of our offerings are as inclusive as possible to the widest possible audience.

- Neurodiverse conditions can often be a benefit to an organisation
- Supporting all users is the right thing to do
- Inclusive design can benefit all users

These guidelines:
- Are designed to complement the exist [sic] accessibility standards
- Are based on research carried out by Hassell Inclusion, for the National Autistic Society, in 2019. The multiple-methodology research included desk research into any previous created neurodiversity guidelines, interviews with experts in autism, an online survey into the needs and preferences of 400 autistic people (with and without associated learning difficulties and dyslexia) from across the United Kingdom, and focus groups to go deeper into the reasons behind these preferences in focus groups with 19 autistic people.
- Are the first set of guidelines which are based on solid empirical evidence.
- At present include 40 distinct guidelines and associated success criteria, split into 14 different sections.

The guidelines are designed to aid users with: Autism · Dyslexia · Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) · Learning difficulties

Guideline contents: Communications styles · Page layout · Navigation · Colours · Fonts · Text · Use of language · Non-textual information · Images · Video content · Movement · Help pages · Customisation · Re-learnability · User research

Common neurodivergent conditions

ADD/ADHD: People with ADHD may experience problems with focus or be distracted from some tasks. On the other hand, people with ADHD may demonstrate a very high degree of focus on other tasks. This is sometimes called hyper-focus. People with ADHD may require different stimulation levels to a typical worker. Some workers with ADHD excel in work environments with high levels of stimulus.

Autism: Diagnoses that fall under the umbrella of autism spectrum conditions (ASC) include Asperger's syndrome and pervasive developmental disorder – not otherwise specified (PDD-NOS). Many autistic people can appear highly articulate and are able to work productively in many roles and sectors, but may struggle to understand the complexities of social interaction. Sensory inputs such as noise, heat, light and touch can be an issue for many people on the autism spectrum.

Dyslexia: Dyslexia is often characterized by problems with reading and writing, although a dyslexic person may encounter other challenges connected to cognitive tasks, such as sequencing, processing of information, working memory, and phonological processing.

Dyspraxia: Dyspraxic is often characterized by problems with fine and/or gross motor activities. This can present challenges for activities that involve handwriting and some manual tasks. Other common characteristics include atypical responses to sensory inputs, and problems with organisation and working memory. Dyspraxia is also known as developmental co-ordination disorder (DCD).

Dyscalculia: Dyscalculia is a neurological condition that may affect mathematical functions. Although this condition is sometimes described as being comparable to dyslexia, research is at an earlier stage and someone who is dyscalculic may not also be dyslexic.

Dysgraphia: Dysgraphia involves neurological difficulties with the act of handwriting and potentially other fine motor skills, such as spelling and finger sequencing, which may affect typing.

@@PAGE /foundations-and-identity/accessibility/Neurodiversity-Guidelines/communication-styles.html (PARTIAL — workplace comms guide, skeleton only)

Communication styles — A guide for people managers and employees.

Introduction: It is everyone's job at HSBC to ensure that they take into account the capabilities and preferred communication styles of colleagues they are communicating with. This is our person-centred approach to communication, which plays out in one-to-one communications, and many-to-many communications in meetings, both face-to-face, and over video conference (Zoom). [...] Broken down by the most common conditions — ADHD, autism and dyslexia; some individuals may have multiple diagnosis.

Contact: neurodiversity.uk@noexternalmail.hsbc.com to improve these guidelines.

High-level guidance for all neurodiverse types: occupational health assessments; share communication needs ("Know Me Better"); meetings — advance notice + share documents ahead, provide structure (agendas), shorter meetings, factor in processing time, encourage contribution from all, reflection period, record meetings/calls; actions — clear and specific delegation, clarify prioritisation, check understanding, set realistic deadlines.

Per-condition sections (ADHD captured; autism/dyslexia follow the same written/verbal/visual scenario pattern — full text on page, not engine-relevant):
ADHD written (clarification needed — employee/manager tactics: notes, recaps, bullet-point high-level detail, labelled summary/actions sections in long emails); verbal (talking too much / interrupting — awareness tactics; facilitator ensures all can contribute, allows processing speed differences, question parking); finding the right words (talk later, secret-code signals); visual (distractions — minimise competing attention, tuck phone away, switch off notifications; managers: don't assume doodling/no-eye-contact means not listening) [capture ends ~mid-ADHD; autism + dyslexia sections not captured]

@@PAGE /foundations-and-identity/accessibility/Neurodiversity-Guidelines/Page_layout.html

Page layout — Designing clear, clutter-free pages.

1. Build simple pages that include only elements relevant to the current user task
Cluttered, busy layouts make finding information difficult and do not allow users to focus on their core tasks. Users prefer simple websites, with finding too many choices on web pages confusing.
Responsibility: Designers. Primary groups impacted: Autism, Dyslexia, ADHD, Learning difficulties.
Ensure that: Failures against this guideline should be identified as part of the design review of the pages / templates. Success of this guideline is dependent upon the success of all other guidelines in this section.
[Examples: busy = Mail Online; clutter-free = hsbc.com]

2. Set page lengths appropriate to the page type and function
Make decisions about the length of the page appropriately to its purpose. For example, make your homepage short and ensure that important information and sections are available with minimum scrolling. Content pages, for example; article pages may be longer to facilitate uninterrupted reading. Homepages that are too long do not allow users to focus on their core tasks and make finding information difficult. Too much scrolling makes autistic users feel 'dizzy' and 'overwhelmed'. On long pages, users may feel like they are lost in "something" that has no end.
Responsibility: Designers, Content owners / authors. Primary groups: all four.
Ensure that (assuming a default resolution of 1280 x 1024): Index pages, unless regulated, do not introduce content that exceeds 4 vertical view lengths (this does not apply to responsive mobile views). Article pages, do not introduce content that exceeds 5 vertical view lengths.
[Example of overly long homepage: bbc.com]

3. Clearly separate design elements and sections that don't belong together
Clearly separate different sections and items on the page by using white space (i.e. space without text or graphics), outlines, borders and dividers (i.e., lines) to help users visually discern which elements are (or are not) part of the same section. Users want all design elements to have clearly defined outlines and borders to be able to focus on them, as well as to move between the different sections within the page. Lack of clear outlines made their vision blur.
Responsibility: Designers, Content owners / authors. Primary groups: all four.
Ensure that: Non-connected content does not flow into each other. Use whitespace of at least 20px to separate the different sections. A visual separator that is able to meet a minimum colour contrast ratio of 3:1 (best practice of 4.5:1) should be present to distinguish between buttons and control boundaries.
[Example of clearly separated elements: hsbc.com]

4. Place important information on top of the page and above the fold
Whenever possible, establish a high-to-low hierarchy of importance of items on the page. Place the information that is most important for users at the top of the page above the fold. For items of equal importance, use alphabetical listing, or chronological ordering (e.g. forum threads, event timelines). Users look for the most important information at the top of the page above the fold.
Responsibility: Designers, Content owners / authors. Primary groups: all four.
Ensure that: It should be possible to determine the function and purpose of the page without scrolling content (at a screen resolution of 1280 x 1024). Where possible, information should be front loaded, i.e. most important information first, and the purpose of the page should be described in the first paragraph. For authoring best practices, apply a hierarchy of information.

5. For each page, provide a summary of the page and its purpose
Provide a short, descriptive summary of the page to help users to understand the topic and purpose of this page; this includes the homepage. Users want to know which pages and sections of the website they are on and often the page titles are not descriptive enough to provide this information. Autistic users feel disorientated when this information is not available and are likely to leave the site.
Responsibility: Content owners / authors. Primary groups: all four.
Ensure that: The purpose of the page should be clearly defined as part of its heading structure, the page banner, or in the first paragraph of the page.

6. Avoid large images above the fold
Avoid large images that would cover the entire space above the fold if there is more information below the fold. Users were overwhelmed by large banners that covered most of the space above the fold blocking their way to information below it.
Responsibility: Designers, Content owners / authors. Primary groups: Autism, Dyslexia.
Ensure that: Initial images or page banners do not take up more than 30% of the page height, at a screen resolution of 1280 x 1024. Carousel content and videos do not take up more than 30% of the page height, at a screen resolution of 1280 x 1024. Points 4 and 5 are followed.

7. Use the size of design elements to communicate the importance of information that they carry
Use the size of design elements (e.g. larger boxes, text size) to help users find important information easily. Users judge the importance of information by the size of the boxes that carry the information, i.e., the content in larger boxes is more important than information in smaller boxes.
Responsibility: Content owners / authors. Primary groups: all four.
Ensure that: Important information is displayed prominently, at a size that accurately reflects the importance of the information. Important information is styled appropriately. The heading and font sizing accurately reflects the importance of the information. Please note: Underline of text should only be on links.

8. Use symmetry to ensure the consistency of page layout
Ensure that design elements are aligned and laid out symmetrically on the page. Whenever possible, maintain an equal number of columns on the page. Autistic users have a strong preference for symmetrically designed pages. They prefer web pages where visual elements, such as boxes and images, are aligned and there is an equal number of columns in sections across the page. There was a clear preference for a grid layout on homepages and a single-column layout on content pages.
Responsibility: Content owners / authors. Primary groups: all four.
Ensure that: You don't introduce significant changes to the page layout throughout the content, i.e. 2-columns layout above a 4-column layout, above a 3-column layout. Where possible, only use a maximum of 2 different column layouts per page.
[Example of confusing layout: bbc.com]

@@PAGE /foundations-and-identity/accessibility/Neurodiversity-Guidelines/Navigation.html

Navigation — Designing consistent and simple navigation.

1. Design consistent and simple navigation across the site
Ensure that the navigation across the site is consistent and allows users to understand how they can navigate to different pages and sections on the site. Websites with complex and inconsistent navigation make people use Google and deep-link directly to the content. It also leads people away from the website, as there may be other websites with similar content listed higher on the search pages.
Responsibility: Designers. Primary groups: all four.
Ensure that: There's consistent layout and presentation of content to users. The detailed requirements of this checkpoint are similar to WCAG 3.2.3 (Consistent Navigation) and this checkpoint will be met as part of the accessibility criteria.

2. Ensure that all links and buttons are visibly clickable
Ensure that links are clearly visible and distinct from other text and non-clickable elements by using colour and underlining. Apply the design consistently across the site. Autistic users expect links (including visited links) to be both underlined and differ in colour from other text and non-clickable elements.
Responsibility: Designers. Primary groups: all four.
Ensure that: Links are clearly and consistently defined, best practice is to underline links and apply a different colour once they have been visited. Buttons are distinguishable from other content and that the boundary controls for the buttons are clearly defined, best practice is to ensure a colour contrast ratio of 3:1 for the button and other similar controls.
[Examples: autscape.org]

3. Ensure that users understand how to navigate carousels
Ensure that users understand which element on the page is a carousel and how they can access the multiple carousel panels. Make the navigation arrows clearly visible and provide information about the number of panels in the carousel. Some of the less web-savvy users missed the arrows on the carousel, until prompted to look for them. Some people did not want to interact with the carousel until they had information about the number of available panels.
Responsibility: Designers. Primary groups: all four.
Ensure that carousels: Have 'Next' and 'Previous' buttons that meet a minimum 3:1 contrast ratio and are clearly labelled for assistive technology applications. Where possible, label controls in a helpful fashion, next month and next page rather than just next. Use common iconography for the function, i.e. left chevron for 'Previous' and right chevron for 'Next'. Do not auto-scroll through content, or where this is not possible, a method exists to pause this functionality. Any dot navigation meets a minimum 3:1 contrast ratio and are clearly labelled for assistive technology applications. Where possible, show part of the next non-active slide to give a visual indication that another slide is present.
[Example lacking instructions: bbc.com/iplayer]

4. Use sequential menus with fewer items to select
Design menus with fewer options that enable users to easily make selection. 'On-hover' menus, as well as menus that include too many items, discourage autistic people from using the site. Sequential menus with fewer options that allow "pointing and clicking" rather than "mousing-over" work better for autistic users.
Responsibility: Designers. Primary groups: all four.
Where possible: Ensure all top-level items in a menu are viewable without needing to scroll. Limit menus to only two sub-level menus. Some requirements similar to WCAG 1.4.14 (Content on 'Hover' or 'Focus').
Ensure that: A mechanism is available to dismiss the additional content without moving pointer hover or keyboard focus i.e. the ESC key. If pointer hover can trigger the additional content, then the pointer can be moved over the additional content without the additional content disappearing.

5. Use a sticky main menu
Use a sticky main menu on the top of the page, to enable users to easily navigate to any other section of the website. Avoid other sticky design elements on the site, such as adverts. Autistic users said that they liked to always have access to other sections of the site and a sticky main menu facilitated this. They found other sticky design elements on the page distracting, e.g. sticky advert banners, sticky side nav with links to related content, or icons for content sharing.
Responsibility: Designers. Primary groups: Autism.
Where possible: Limit size of menus or sticky content to 35% of the screen layout. Where pages are longer than one screen height (at 1280 x 1024), wherever possible, ensure top navigation menus are sticky. Some requirements similar to WCAG 1.4.14.
Ensure that: A mechanism is available to dismiss the additional content without moving pointer hover or keyboard focus i.e. the ESC key. If pointer hover can trigger the additional content, then the pointer can be moved over the additional content without the additional content disappearing. The additional content remains visible until the hover or focus trigger is removed, the user dismisses it, or its information is no longer valid.

@@PAGE /foundations-and-identity/accessibility/Neurodiversity-Guidelines/Colours.html

Colours — Applying low-contrast colour schemes and allowing users to customise colours to suit their needs.

1. Avoid using lots of bright colours
Use simple, soft colours and colour combinations for the background, logo, images and text across the website. Autistic users prefer low-contrast colour schemes. Bright contrasting colours are commonly known to be visually overstimulating. Users may become distracted by bright colours and bright imagery.
Responsibility: Content owner / author. Primary groups: Autism, Dyslexia.
Ensure that: Where possible, harmonious colour combinations should be used. Where bright colours are used, ensure that they do not cover more than 20% of the screen content. Additional tooling may be introduced to aid with this requirement.
[Example of soft harmonious scheme: autism.org.uk]

2. Allow users to customise the background and text colours
Allow users to choose the background and text colours that suit their needs. "There is no standard autistic colour preference" (Expert 3). Autistic users' needs regarding colours differ. A colour scheme that works for one autistic person does not work for another user. However, they all agree that being able to choose their colours on the web would significantly improve their experience on the web.
Responsibility: Platform owner. Primary groups: all four.
Ensure that: Where possible allow users to customise background and text colours. Please note: this checkpoint may require a change to the underlying platform and third party overlays are currently being investigated.

@@PAGE /foundations-and-identity/accessibility/Neurodiversity-Guidelines/Fonts.html

Fonts — Guidance to ensure readability of text on a website.

1. Font size
To ensure readability of text on the site, use large font size, not smaller than 12 pt. Generally, users preferred larger size fonts, at least 12 pt. For example, the size of font used on the National Autistic Society (NAS) forum was considered too small for comfortable reading.
Responsibility: Designers. Primary groups: Autism, Dyslexia, Learning difficulties.
Ensure that: The minimum font size for the page is set to 12pt. Exceptions may be made for subscript, superscript, terms and conditions and other related items.

2. Choose a typeface for your website and use it consistently (avoid using serif and sans-serif fonts on the same page)
Avoid using too many typefaces on the site. Use consistently either a serif or a sans-serif font across your website. Avoid using both a serif font and a sans-serif font on the same page. Some autistic users prefer sans-serif fonts, while others read better in serif fonts. Autistic users feel distracted when both type of fonts are used on the same page.
Responsibility: Designers. Primary groups: all four.
Ensure that: Content meets the HSBC design guidelines. Only HSBC fonts are used. Exceptions may be made for imagery or branding.

3. Allow users to customise the font type and size to suit their needs
Allow users to choose the font type and size that best suit their needs, in order to make reading easier for them. Autistic users have different preferences regarding the use of serif and sans-serif fonts, and font sizes.
Responsibility: Designers. Primary groups: all four.
Ensure that: Where possible allow users to customise font type and size. Please note: this checkpoint may require a change to the underlying platform and third party overlays are currently being investigated.

@@PAGE /foundations-and-identity/accessibility/Neurodiversity-Guidelines/Text.html

Text — Formatting text for easier reading.

1. Ensure sufficient spacing between paragraphs and between lines of text
Use white space (areas not filled with text or graphics) consistently to separate paragraphs and lines of text. All users, but particularly users with associated learning disabilities (those with "eye-tracking" issues and people with ADHD) found densely spaced text difficult to read.
Responsibility: Designers. Primary groups: all four.
Ensure that: Line height (line spacing) to at least 1.5 times the font size. Spacing following paragraphs to at least 2 times the font size. Similar to WCAG 1.4.12 (Text Spacing) — met as part of the accessibility criteria.
[Example difficult to read: dailymail.co.uk]

2. Organise text into short paragraphs and use short lines
Use short paragraphs and short lines to organise the text for easier reading. Users found long paragraphs and long lines difficult to read.
Responsibility: Content owner / author. Primary groups: Dyslexia, ADHD, Learning difficulties.
Ensure that: Content should (ideally) not exceed 4 sentences per paragraph. Sentences should ideally not exceed 240 characters (including spaces).

3. Do not interrupt the flow of text with images or other design elements
Avoid splitting the text with elements that may interrupt the flow of reading. Avoid scroll-stoppers that may mislead users into thinking that they have reached the end of the text when they have not. Users want to be able to read the text without interruption. Large images or video content placed in the text interrupt users' thought process. It is worse when the design element fills up a large part of the screen.
Responsibility: Designers. Primary groups: Autism, Dyslexia, Learning difficulties.
Ensure that: You do not interrupt or split paragraphs with images. Do not use 'callout quotes' to disrupt flow of content, these can be used but only at the end of section.

4. Avoid using bold text style for large amounts of text and in combination with other text styles
Limit the use of bold text to highlight keywords or important phrases in the text, to make them stand out to readers. Applying bolding to a large amount of text confuses users and makes them feel agitated.
Responsibility: Content owner / author. Primary groups: Autism.
Ensure that: Bold should only be used for phrases, and not entire content sections or lists. Bold should only be used for emphasis rather than entire sentence structure.

@@PAGE /foundations-and-identity/accessibility/Neurodiversity-Guidelines/Use_of_language.html

Use of language — Using clear, concise language, appropriate to the reading age of the page's audience.

1. Use clear, concise language with a suitable reading age for the page audience
Use clear, precise language, and avoid metaphors and ambiguous terms. Autistic users want information to be delivered in a concise and precise manner. Authors should consider the reading age of the target audience for a page (e.g. it would be different for a complex financial blog for analysts and for the public HSBC homepage) and test all text against it.
Responsibility: Content owner / author. Primary groups: Dyslexia, Learning difficulties.
Ensure that: Similar to WCAG 3.1.5 (Reading Level) — met as part of the accessibility criteria. Please note: This does not impact regulatory requirements.

2. Avoid metaphors and ambiguity
Avoid metaphors and inconsistent or ambiguous terms. Users may find it difficult for them to understand when people do not say what they mean and when people use metaphors. The banks tone of voice guidance, as well as research and user testing we carry out with customers, supports the use of a conversational, informal writing style. However, consider that some users will interpret what we write very literally, so make sure that writing remains clear and unambiguous.
Responsibility: Content owner / author. Primary groups: Autism, Dyslexia, Learning difficulties.
Please note: This does not impact regulatory requirements.

3. Avoid jargon, abbreviations, acronyms, idioms and colloquialisms
Avoid using specialist niche terminology or colloquial language on the site. Use clear and concise language that is familiar to users. See further guidance on abbreviations and acronyms in the Style Guide. Users struggle with understanding specialist terminology or colloquial language.
Responsibility: Content owner / author. Primary groups: Autism, Dyslexia, Learning difficulties.
Ensure that: Similar to WCAG 3.1.4 (Abbreviations) and WCAG 3.1.3 (Unusual Words) — met in part with the accessibility criteria. Where abbreviations and acronyms have been used, ensure that they are clearly defined elsewhere on the page. Please note: This does not impact regulatory requirements.

@@PAGE /foundations-and-identity/accessibility/Neurodiversity-Guidelines/Non_textual_information.html

Non-textual information — Guidance for using visuals alongside text.

1. Use visuals with the text to facilitate understanding
Use visuals to facilitate understanding of textual information and to help users locate required information on the page. Users prefer pictures or icons alongside the text, to help them understand information. Please refer to HSBC Design toolkits.
Responsibility: Content owner / author. Primary groups: Autism, Dyslexia, Learning difficulties.
Ensure that: Where possible use common iconography to support the understanding of important functions, concepts and words. Please note: icons and non-textual imagery is intended to support text, not replace text, as all content should still be comprehensible with all images and icons removed.

2. Provide the ability to turn off decorative graphics and all images
Allow users to turn off decorative graphics and all images on the website to enable them to focus on textual information. Text-first users find all images distracting and they would benefit from an ability to turn all graphics off or on.
Responsibility: Content owner / author. Primary groups: Autism, ADHD.
Ensure that: Where possible allow users to toggle the display of images and graphics. Please note: this checkpoint may require a change to the underlying platform and third party overlays are currently being investigated.

@@PAGE /foundations-and-identity/accessibility/Neurodiversity-Guidelines/Images.html

Images — Ensuring images can be easily understood and add clarity to information on a page.

1. Use simple images that can be easily understood
Use simple functional and complementary images that can be understood at a glance, without a need for a deep visual analysis. Users want images that are simple and easy to understand. Users found images showing a single object in focus easier to process.
Responsibility: Content owner / author. Primary groups: Autism, Dyslexia, Learning difficulties.
Ensure that: Ensure that the content of an image is not used as the sole means to communicate information. Where imagery is used, simpler is often better. Whilst images may inspire deeper thought, it should be possible to understand the main purpose of the image within a couple of seconds.
[Example of complex image where meaning may be lost: HSBC]

2. Make sure your images are meaningful and add value and clarity to the information on the page
Use images that are meaningful and provide further information or explanation to the text. Autistic users wanted images to be meaningful and congruent with the story on the page. Images must add value, provide more information or clarification to the text, represent information visually (e.g., infographics).
Responsibility: Content owner / author. Primary groups: Autism, Dyslexia, Learning difficulties.
Ensure that: The images used have a purpose. A connection between the image and content exists. It should be possible to understand the purpose or meaning of the image when it is viewed.

3. Limit the use of background images and decorative graphics
Use background images sparingly, especially if they are overlaid with text. If you use decorative graphics, ensure they do not distract the users from reading text. Use non-patterned backgrounds on content pages to facilitate uninterrupted reading. Autistic users found background images and decorative graphics distracting, they preferred plain background, especially on content pages where there is much textual information to read through.
Responsibility: Content owner / author. Primary groups: Autism, Dyslexia.
Ensure that: Ensure that decorative images do not draw attention or focus away from the content. For content and form input areas, do not overlay content upon a decorative image. It is acceptable to use a decorative image which is of uniform texture.

@@PAGE /foundations-and-identity/accessibility/Neurodiversity-Guidelines/Video_content.html

Video content — Guidance for ensuring video content is accessible to all.

1. Disable auto-play
Do not make video content to auto-play on pages, even if the sound is off. Users must have control over what content is playing and when it is playing. If you include auto-play, there was must be an option to turn it off [sic]. Auto-playing videos made users feel "nervous" and "out of control" over their online experience.
Responsibility: Designers. Primary groups: Autism, ADHD.
Ensure that: Ensure that video and audio content does not auto play on page load. If any animations exist on the page, they must last no longer than 5 seconds. Similar to WCAG 2.2.2 (Pause, Stop, Hide) — met as part of the Accessibility criteria.

2. Provide captions for videos and transcripts for all video and audio content
To enable text-first users to access the same information in text format, always provide captions for all videos and transcripts for video and audio. 38.5% of all respondents need transcripts for audio content.
Responsibility: Content owner / author. Primary groups: Autism, Dyslexia, Learning difficulties.
Ensure that: All video and audio content have both captions and transcripts. Similar to WCAG 1.2.1, 1.2.2, 1.2.4 — met as part of the accessibility criteria.

3. Allow users to turn off captions
Allow users to switch captions off according to their preferences. Some visual autistic users find captions distracting and would like to be able to turn them off.
Responsibility: Platform owner. Primary groups: all four.
Ensure that: Use closed captions rather than open; this allows the user to turn the captions on or off through the media player.

4. Provide text-based introductory information for videos on the site
Provide text-based introductory information for videos, so that users can read it before they play the content. Before they decide to play video content, users wanted to know what the video was about and how long it was.
Responsibility: Content owner / author. Primary groups: Autism.
Ensure that: Where possible, describe the intended purpose of the video above the video content.

@@PAGE /foundations-and-identity/accessibility/Neurodiversity-Guidelines/Movement.html

Movement — Guidance for moving and animated design elements.

1. Disable auto-playing movement on pages
Provide a pause mechanism for moving and animated design elements, e.g., carousels. Avoid using pop-ups, moving or animated design elements. If eliminating movement is impossible, provide a pause mechanism to "return" control to users. Even the smallest movement can have negative impact on some autistic web users. Autistic users may find moving adverts, pop-ups were distracting to the point where they are prevented them from using websites [sic]. Auto-playing carousels make it difficult for users to read the text before the panels change. However, some autistic users liked auto-playing carousels.
Responsibility: Platform owner, Content owner / author. Primary groups: all four.
Ensure that: Scrolling or animated content does not auto play on page load. If any animations exist on the page, they must last no longer than 5 seconds. Do not use any flashing images or animations. Similar to WCAG 2.2.2 (Pause, Stop, Hide) and WCAG 2.3.3 (Animations from Interactions) — met in part with the accessibility criteria.

2. Avoid attention-attracting movement, unless other methods of visual emphasis have failed
Small, animated movement may be used to draw users' attention to information or to invite users to take action if all other methods of visual emphasis such as: size, colour, font style, have failed. Small, animated movement of an arrow when moused over communicated to users that the section was clickable and more information was available. This movement was limited and explainable, and users did not find it disturbing.
Responsibility: Content owner / author. Primary groups: all four.
Ensure that: If any animations exist on the page, they must last no longer than 5 seconds. Do not use any flashing images or animations. Similar to WCAG 2.2.2 — met as part of the accessibility criteria.

@@PAGE /foundations-and-identity/accessibility/Neurodiversity-Guidelines/Help_pages.html

Help pages — Providing access to help through both digital and non-digital means.

Ensure that all autistic users are effectively supported when problems occur on the site. Provide help for your website in a range of formats and channels, e.g., via phone or a live chat, as well as via email and on the site, e.g., FAQ pages. Some autistic users prefer to use the phone or a live chat to access help on the site quickly. People with phone anxiety tend to look for answers on the site, e.g., FAQ pages, Google, or want to be able to send their queries via email.
Responsibility: Designer, Content owner / author. Primary groups: Autism, Dyslexia, Learning difficulties.
Ensure that: Sufficient help and instructions are available to the user to perform any expected action required for the site / application. Help information is easy to find. The user has access to help through non-digital means, i.e. telephone contact centre.

@@PAGE /foundations-and-identity/accessibility/Neurodiversity-Guidelines/Customisation.html

Customisation — Allowing users to customise their website experience.

1. Allow users to customise the website and make customisation clearly available
Allow users to tailor their experience on the website to their needs and preferences. The essential customisation must include tools to change font type and size, text and background colours, an ability to turn off decorative graphics, an ability to turn off captions for video content. The available accessibility tools must be clearly visible and easy to use. Autistic web users must be able to tailor their web experience to their needs. While some users could change in-browser accessibility settings, others did not know where to look for accessibility tools.
Responsibility: Platform owner. Primary groups: all four.
Ensure that: Where possible allow users to customise background and text colours, font sizes, imagery, and captions. Please note: this checkpoint may require a change to the underlying platform and third-party overlays are currently being investigated.

@@PAGE /foundations-and-identity/accessibility/Neurodiversity-Guidelines/Re-learnability.html

Re-learnability — Communicating website changes to users in advance.

1. Communicate planned changes to the website clearly and in advance
Announce any planned changes on your website in advance, inform the users about what is going to change and when the changes are going to be implemented. Changes disorientate users. Users feel lost and frustrated when the websites that they like and use change frequently or unexpectedly.
Responsibility: Platform owners. Primary groups: all four.
Ensure that: Proactively inform users of any changes to form or function of the platform. If new updates which change the user journey are planned, inform the user in advance. If changes to common features are planned, inform the user in advance.

@@PAGE /foundations-and-identity/accessibility/Neurodiversity-Guidelines/User-research.html

User research — Conducting user research to inform product design decisions.

1. Conduct user research to inform product design decisions
Conduct research with autistic web users, including users with associated learning disabilities, to make sure that the new website meets their needs and preferences. Autistic web users feel disorientated when websites that they frequently use change and the information that was available on the site before the changes is not easy to find. Conducting user research with autistic web users before and after redesign work will ensure that users are able to complete user journeys and accomplish core tasks on the site without needing to adapt it.
Responsibility: Global function. Primary groups: all four.
Ensure that: This is a global function, and HSBC introducing user testing against new platforms with a diverse range of users [sic].

@@PAGE /foundations-and-identity/accessibility/communication.html (hub — subpages NOT descended)

Accessibility communication — To ensure our communications are as accessible and inclusive as possible, we have identified the seven most common scenarios we may encounter in the work place.

Introduction to accessibility communication — Why committing to accessibility is the right thing to do.
Scenario 1: meetings — In order to make my event as inclusive as possible, I need to consider...
Scenario 2: multimedia — I'm producing multimedia content, including films and podcasts. I need to consider…
Scenario 3: media — I'm responsible for media engagement. I need to consider…
Scenario 4: digital content — I'm creating digital content. I need to consider…
Scenario 5: internal comms — I'm creating internal communications. I need to consider…
Scenario 6: surveys — I'm producing a survey. I need to consider…
Scenario 7: social media — I'm producing content for social media. I need to consider…
